[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The longest lunar eclipse
of the century is this week.
What can we learn
from the ancients
about the celestial
transitional event?
This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In the early morning
hours of November 19,
the moon will be
in partial eclipse.
NASA says the moon will slip
behind the Earth's shadow
for about 2 and 1/2 hours,
and weather permitting, quote,
"A huge swath of the planet will
be able to see at least some
of the eclipse."
The moon, as well as
other celestial bodies,
has played a big role in the
lives of ancient peoples,
mystics and shamans.
Jack Cary, researcher and
author of "Paranormal Planet,"
on the history and
significance of the eclipse.
>> In ancient times, eclipses
were always seen as an omen,
whether it be good or bad.
As the sun or the moon
becomes shaded over,
you're seeing a connection
both of the feminine
and the masculine
qualities of existence.
And because of that, it
was seen as a holy union.
>> What is the connection
between the moon and divine
feminine energy
throughout history?
>> The moon itself has always
been seen as the goddess
of the sky.
And because of
that, all goddesses
that were worshipped around the
world in ancient civilizations
all had this symbolism
of the moon itself.
>> What did the ancient people
know about the planets that we
should remember now?
>> In ancient times, Pythagoras,
who was the inventor of a cult
that worshipped numbers, came
up with the idea of the music
of the spheres.
This idea that each planet
had its own frequency, kind of
like a musical scale.
And these eclipses, when they
line up with one another,
have an effect.
The vibrational effect
that then encompasses
the entire magnetic field
of the Earth and actually
affects biology on this planet.
>> For many cultures, the
eclipse is a symbol of change,
a time for rejuvenation
and renewal.
How do we honor the
planets and ourselves
during this time of change?
>> So there are many
mysteries of the moon.
The ancients, as
they saw these omens,
didn't realize as they
occurred around the world,
and every ancient civilization
saw that as an omen,
but I think what we can learn
is that these are moments when
we can both respect
and stand in awe
of the celestial movements
of the planets just even
in our solar system and
just how sacred that is.
So the most important
part I think
is looking inward
and then making
that cosmic connection that is
representative of an eclipse.
>> To best see this eclipse,
NASA says it will begin about
2:00 AM on the east Coast of
the United States and 11 PM
on the west coast.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.